#summary ITH manual

= Introduction =

Interactive Text Hooker (ITH) is a tool to help you extract text from Japanese games. It's the first building blocks of a auto-translating system. The main purpose of ITH is to intercept text processed by a program and arrange text into clean form. Main idea of ITH comes from AGTH. ITH works very like AGTH, and has some advantage over AGTH.

= System requirement =

Intel Pentium4 or later processor. Recommend OS is Windows XP or later. 
Your processor must support SSE2. Or you may get an error message.

= Basic Usage =

== Setup and start ITH ==


ITH contains 3 files, namely ITH.exe, ITH.dll and ITH_engine.dll. These 3 files need to be put into same folder. ITH requires administrative privilege to function properly. If you are using Vista/7, you need to run ITH as administrator. 
 
== Attach ITH ==

The first step of text extraction is attaching ITH to a game. Click *Process* button to open to process dialog. On the left you can see a list of processes that ITH is able to attach. This list is sorted by creation time of the process. So the latest created process is at the top of this list. Select the process you want to attach ITH, then click *Attach* button. ITH will give a message if it attach successfully. Click *OK* to close the dialog.

== Select text thread ==

After ITH receive some text, it will put text into _threads_. A _thread_ contains certain piece of the text. In the main window, the longer drop down list contains all the thread. If you select one, the text in the main window is changed to that thread. By default, there's only one named *ConsoleOutput*. Usually as the game display some text, more threads should be added to this list. If you can't see any thread other than ConsoleOutput while the game is flashing text, you will need to insert custom hook.

== Copy to clipboard ==

ITH can copy received text to clipboard, then other translation software monitors clipboard can read the text and translate it into other language. You can simply select text by click & drag. Then the selected text is copied to clipboard. ITH is able to copy the last sentence to clipboard automatically. You need to enable this function by click *Option* and check *Auto copy to clipboard*.

== Save you selection ==

It's bothersome to attach ITH and select text every time you start the game. After you have attached ITH and selected some thread for the first time, click *Save* to save your selection. ITH will record necessary information in ITH.pro. The next time you start this game, ITH will attach to the game and select thread automatically.